README.md, before:

# ai-unet
SuperAI BaseModel compatible implementation of UNet from https://github.com/milesial/Pytorch-UNet

This implementation illustrates how an open source model can be integrated into super.Ai by using the `BaseModel` interface. This allows us take care of the model operations such as automatic retraining, model drift detection, etc.

## Training method
The Pytorch-UNet implementation contains simple train script containing methods which start training, namely the `train_net` method. This initializes the model, sets up the data loader and performs metric tracking based on the hyperparameters passed in the arguments. We plan on re-using this method to prevent code duplication. 

> We containerize the code for better deployment, so the following instructions are containerization focused.

1. Enable importing

    You can import the implementation in a deployed container by cloning the repository in the container. This can be done by creating a script like [`setup.sh`](setup/setup.sh). This script will be added to the deployment by adding it to your config as shown below (check [config](config) folder)
    ```yaml
    template:
      name: "UNetTemplate"
      description: "Template for UNet based on https://github.com/milesial/Pytorch-UNet"
      model_class: "SuperaiUNetModel"
      artifacts:
        run: "setup/setup.sh"
      conda_env: "conda.yml"
    ...
    ```
  This places the `Pytorch-UNet` code on your home directory of the container. 

2. Installing requirements:

   The next step is installing all requirements. We have specified a [`conda.yml`](conda.yml) file. You could specify the installation instructions in the setup script above. 

3. Import the modules:

   To make sure you import all modules correctly, add it to sys path
   ```python
   from pathlib import Path
   import sys
   from superai.meta_ai import BaseModel
   
   ###################################################################################
   
   unet_path = Path(__file__).parent.absolute().joinpath("Pytorch-UNet")
   sys.path.insert(0, str(unet_path))
   try:
       import train
       import predict
       from unet import UNet
   except:
       raise Exception(f"train/predict file could not be imported from {unet_path}")
   
   ###################################################################################
   
   class SuperaiUNetModel(BaseModel):
      def predict(self, inputs, context=None):
         """Call predict method code here"""
         
      def load_weights(self, weights_path):
         """Load weights into UNet"""
       
      def train(self, **kwargs):
         """Call train method code here"""
   ```

### Points to note while training

> To ensure that the training works with a superai app, there is some preprocessing required to obtain the data from the superai datasets. Please see the `train` implementation in [`SuperaiUNetModel.py`](SuperaiUNetModel.py) for more details
> 
> Currently, the metrics are generated in wandb in a anonymous run. This will be changed in the future.

### Testing

If you have a local environment setup will all requirements present, you can run training locally. This can be done by running 
```bash
superai ai method train -p .AISave/unet/1/ -tp superai_dataset -mp gen_model -h batch_size=1
```
For generating content of the `.AISave` folder, run the remote deployment script
```bash
superai ai training deploy --config-file config/dev_config.yaml
```

## Predict

If all the requirements are satisfied, you can deploy a predictor locally by running
```bash
superai ai deploy --config-file config/dev_config.yaml
```
Easiest way to check logs is by checking the docker desktop and looking for a container named `unet:1`

To send prediction requests to this model
```bash
superai ai predictor-test -i '<JSON input>' --config-file config/dev_config.yaml
```

You can update the orchestrator in the config file to `AWS_EKS` to deploy on the clous and repeat the above experiment.

Commit message:

Adding introduction section to README

README.md, after:

# ai-unet
SuperAI BaseModel compatible implementation of UNet from https://github.com/milesial/Pytorch-UNet

This implementation illustrates how an open source model can be integrated into super.Ai by using the `BaseModel` interface. This allows us take care of the model operations such as automatic retraining, model drift detection, etc.

## Introduction
The Super.AI SDK allows developers to easily prepare any Machine Learning model for deployment on the Super.AI platform. The model functions are wrapped inside our base model interface and then placed in a Docker container for deployment.

![SuperAi Model Integration Diagram](https://github.com/mysuperai/ai-unet/blob/main/img/superai_container.png?raw=true)

The BaseModel Interface guides the mapping of relevant functions of the model with a python class-bound object that the Super.AI back-end is able to communicate with directly without further modifications to the model code itself, utilizing simple module imports. This allows Super.AI to take care of all the model operations such as prediction, automatic retraining, model drift detection, etc. Simply clone all the model code along with the wrapper and configuration files inside a docker container (which can be built using the SDK) and then deployed into Meta AI - Super.AI’s fully scalable model training and prediction registry.

## Training method
The Pytorch-UNet implementation contains simple train script containing methods which start training, namely the `train_net` method. This initializes the model, sets up the data loader and performs metric tracking based on the hyperparameters passed in the arguments. We plan on re-using this method to prevent code duplication. 

> We containerize the code for better deployment, so the following instructions are containerization focused.

1. Enable importing

    You can import the implementation in a deployed container by cloning the repository in the container. This can be done by creating a script like [`setup.sh`](setup/setup.sh). This script will be added to the deployment by adding it to your config as shown below (check [config](config) folder)
    ```yaml
    template:
      name: "UNetTemplate"
      description: "Template for UNet based on https://github.com/milesial/Pytorch-UNet"
      model_class: "SuperaiUNetModel"
      artifacts:
        run: "setup/setup.sh"
      conda_env: "conda.yml"
    ...
    ```
  This places the `Pytorch-UNet` code on your home directory of the container. 

2. Installing requirements:

   The next step is installing all requirements. We have specified a [`conda.yml`](conda.yml) file. You could specify the installation instructions in the setup script above. 

3. Import the modules:

   To make sure you import all modules correctly, add it to sys path
   ```python
   from pathlib import Path
   import sys
   from superai.meta_ai import BaseModel
   
   ###################################################################################
   
   unet_path = Path(__file__).parent.absolute().joinpath("Pytorch-UNet")
   sys.path.insert(0, str(unet_path))
   try:
       import train
       import predict
       from unet import UNet
   except:
       raise Exception(f"train/predict file could not be imported from {unet_path}")
   
   ###################################################################################
   
   class SuperaiUNetModel(BaseModel):
      def predict(self, inputs, context=None):
         """Call predict method code here"""
         
      def load_weights(self, weights_path):
         """Load weights into UNet"""
       
      def train(self, **kwargs):
         """Call train method code here"""
   ```

### Points to note while training

> To ensure that the training works with a superai app, there is some preprocessing required to obtain the data from the superai datasets. Please see the `train` implementation in [`SuperaiUNetModel.py`](SuperaiUNetModel.py) for more details
> 
> Currently, the metrics are generated in wandb in a anonymous run. This will be changed in the future.

### Testing

If you have a local environment setup will all requirements present, you can run training locally. This can be done by running 
```bash
superai ai method train -p .AISave/unet/1/ -tp superai_dataset -mp gen_model -h batch_size=1
```
For generating content of the `.AISave` folder, run the remote deployment script
```bash
superai ai training deploy --config-file config/dev_config.yaml
```

## Predict

If all the requirements are satisfied, you can deploy a predictor locally by running
```bash
superai ai deploy --config-file config/dev_config.yaml
```
Easiest way to check logs is by checking the docker desktop and looking for a container named `unet:1`

To send prediction requests to this model
```bash
superai ai predictor-test -i '<JSON input>' --config-file config/dev_config.yaml
```

You can update the orchestrator in the config file to `AWS_EKS` to deploy on the clous and repeat the above experiment.
